The Delhi government has appointed a Commission of Inquiry to address "unheeded" complaints of women by the police and tasked it to recommend action in cases of crime against women and amendments to existing laws.
The three-member commission, to be headed by retired district judge Dinesh Dayal, will receive complaints, including on violence, sexual harassment, stalking and voyeurism against women since February 2013.
The appointment of the probe panel was notified by Delhi Women and Child Development Department on January 19.
The Arvind Kejriwal government had in August called a one-day assembly session, which had passed a resolution to set up the commission following the brutal murder of a 19-year-old girl in Anand Parbat area in Delhi on July 16, last year.
The tenure of the commission shall be for a period of two years and it will submit its report to the government every three months from the date of its first sitting.
According to the terms of reference of the panel, it will receive "unheeded" complaints of crimes committed against women since February 2013, that is, subsequent to amendments made to IPC (1860) and CrPC (1973) on the basis of some recommendations made by Justice Verma Committee and to suggest action to the state government.
"Its scope of work also includes suggesting necessary amendments to relevant laws, if any. It will also need to recommend to the government if any case of negligence or collusion is made out prima facie in the cases examined," a senior official said.
Among others, the panel is expected to recommend measures to expedite all the proceedings in such criminal cases, propose steps for proper implementation of existing laws and the Verma committee recommendations so as to prevent recurrence of such incidents.
"It is also expected to recommend welfare measures for improving the working condition of the real foot soldiers in the law enforcing agencies and address any other issue which it may find relevant during the course of its inquiry," the official added.                
