Delhi Police Commissioner B S Bassi today said three upcoming mobile-based applications for reporting economic offences, crime against women and cases of petty thefts will be launched in a month's time.
Speaking after the Police Commemoration Day Parade in New Delhi, he said the first application will be connected with Economic Offences Wing (EOW) of Delhi Police, the second will be linked to Special Unit for Women and Children (SPUW&C) and the third will be treated by a virtual police station".
All these applications are expected to be launched in a month's time.
Delhi Police already has several mobile applications which include the Delhi Traffic Police app, HIMMAT SOS app and online services for passport clearance and reporting motor vehicle thefts.
Hailing the concept of filing lost reports through the Internet, Mr Bassi said, "If anyone can prove that there is corruption in the process, even after being taken to a virtual platform, I will resign from my post."
The top city cop further said that Delhi Police has virtualized the processes of Passport Clearance Certificate (PCC) and filing untraced reports in order to ensure zero-corruption in the system.
Mr Bassi also said that his department can fight corruption better if complaints received through the 1031 anti-graft helpline are forwarded to the Anti-Corruption Branch (ACB) headed by Joint Commissioner of Police (New Delhi) M K Meena.
"I request the Chief Minister to forward us complaints received through the 1031 helpline.I assure transparent action, subjected to public audit," Mr Bassi said.
When asked about the issue of women's security in Delhi, Mr Bassi maintained his stand on "truthful reporting" and commented that Delhi is in a better position than several cities in France where women, who suffer criminal offences, do not even approach the police.
"Parenting and schooling play great roles in curbing crimes against women and changing perspectives. So, I recently suggested the AAP government to add moral education as compulsory subject in schools," said Mr Bassi.                
