On the second anniversary of the December 16 gangrape case, Delhi Police Commissioner BS Bassi today said that the sudden rise in the graph of crime against woman in the city means that the fairer sex is more confident to report such incidents today then it was two years ago.
The police chief also said that he would be satisfied only when there is zero crime against women in the national capital.
"I would like to tell you that after December 16 incident, women feel more confident to report about the incidents. Changes made in the law have also helped," he said.
There has been a sudden spurt in crime against women in the national capital since 2012. The number of FIRs registered for rape rose from 680 in 2012 to 1,559 cases in 2013 and 1,925 cases till November this year.
The number of molestation cases has also gone up from 615 in 2012 to 3,347 last year and 3,932 cases (till November).
"We want to bring the number of crime against woman to zero in Delhi. Society should also change, policemen have also been sensitized," said Bassi.
"The number proves that the victims are now coming out openly to complain. We want the women of Dehi to become braver. In the last one year, we have imparted self-defence training to 14,000 women", he added.
He also said they would be distributing pepper spray to 1,000 women.
Delhi Police is taking all steps to ensure that crimes against women are not suppressed, Bassi said, adding that a number of steps have been taken by the force to ensure that woman who to come to Police Station their grievances are heard effectively and investigation is carried out and culprits brought to book.
"In this regard I would like to tell you that the number of 100 distress help line which used to be 60 has been increased to 100. The woman helpline number 1091 which used to have four lines has been increased to 10", he said.
Bassi also pointed out that in every territorial police station in Delhi, at least 8 to 10 woman officials and at every police station we are having a woman helpdesk 24x7. So any woman who comes to the Police Station with any grievances, her complaint is heard by a woman police officer and thereafter whatever is necessary is done. Particularly in rape case, all investigations are done by woman cops.
The top cop also said that the government has decided to increase the number of women personnel in Delhi Police. A total of 1,250 women constables have been hired and they will be on the streets of the national capital after around eight months and more will join soon.                 
