A 15-year-old girl allegedly got her minor ex-boyfriend killed with the help of her new-found juvenile lover and four of his friends after inviting the victim for playing Holi and patching up in north Delhi's Burari area.
Police has nabbed all the six accused in the case including the girl who is a class sixth dropout and her 17-year-old boyfriend. The other four accused are all in their early 20's and have been identified as Gautam, Kesto, Govinda and Naveen. They lived in the same area.
The victim has been identified as Kamal (16), who worked odd jobs and lived with his family in North Delhi's Jahangirpuri area. The incident took place on Saturday evening in Burari at a red light located near Outer Ring Road.
"The girl also lived in Jahangirpuri along with her maternal grandparents who worked as labourers. Her parents had passed away long back. She was in a relationship with Kamal but off late, she drifted toward the other juvenile. This did not go down too well with Kamal who beat up the other boy and also scolded the girl," said a senior police official.
Both the 15-year-old girl and her new boyfriend held a grudge against Kamal for this and decided to teach him a lesson.
On Saturday, the girl called Kamal inviting her to play Holi in Burari with some of her friends claiming that she wanted to patch up with him. As soon as Kamal reached a secluded stretch, the 17-year-old juvenile and his four friends who were hiding nearby, stabbed him with knives and fled the scene, he added.
He was found lying in a pool of blood by a passerby Yash Kumar who rushed him to hospital with the help of police. In the ambulance, Kamal told Kumar about his attackers and also asked him to inform his family. He later succumbed to his injuries during treatment but not before giving a statement to police.
"On the basis of the statement, all the six accused including the girl and the juvenile have been nabbed. We have registered a case of murder and further investigations are on," said Deputy Commissioner of Police (North) Madhur Verma.
                 
