What goes around, comes around! This proverb turned true for two young engineering students as their fate took them to the same man whose lost phone they had found and set out to sell it on a sale-purchase portal before landing in police net.
The two accused, identified as Rajat Kant Singh and Mahesh Kumar, both residents of South Delhi have been arrested in the case of theft and sent to Tihar jail. They are students of an engineering college of Noida and are pursuing B Tech.
"The incident took place on Monday when Kushal Bansal, a resident of Patiala, who also happens to be an engineer, forgot his iPhone in an ATM in Connaught Place area and went to Palika market. By the time he realised and returned to check the ATM, the mobile was missing. He then lodged a missing report with the Connaught Place police station," said a police official.
The phone was found in the ATM by Singh and Kumar who then decided to sell it off by placing an advertisement on the website in order to raise the money, he said.
Meanwhile, in what could be termed as the height of coincidence, Bansal, who was looking for a second hand phone on the same website, came across their advertisement and got in touch with them.
"They spoke over phone and the deal was struck at Rs 38,000. The duo told him that they does not have the box of the phone but have the bill. They decided to meet at Malviya Nagar metro station to materialise the deal. Bansal reached the spot at 8:30 PM where the two youth arrived. The transactions could not take place as the duo could not furnish the bill," the official said.
They then asked Bansal to meet at Palika Bazar the next day and promised to bring a bill. The next day, the duo met him with a fake bill. When Bansal checked the International Mobile Equipment Identity (IMEI) of the phone, he was shocked to find that it was his stolen phone.
He somehow informed police and kept the two youth busy. A police team rushed to the spot and nabbed them. They were taken to Connaught Police station where they allegedly confessed to have picked up the phone from the ATM. CCTV footage of the ATM booth also showed them taking away the phone, police said.
