A woman was allegedly conned by a man posing as ex-Grasim Mr India Gagan Greval, a famous model of the late 90s. The woman lodged an FIR against accused Rohit Munjal after tracking down two of his previous victims.
Munjal approached the woman saying he worked with the Virgin Atlantic Airlines, the police said.
Mr Greval, who is no longer active in modelling and practising medicine in Ludhiana, too lodged a criminal complaint against Munjal with the Ludhiana Police.
The woman tracked down two of Munjal's earlier victims and after gathering documentary evidence, lodged a complaint with the Economic Offences (EOW) of Delhi Police against him, his brother and sister-in-law on September 20.
Police has launched a manhunt to nab the fraudster. "A case under 420/34 IPC and 66 D IT Act has been registered and efforts are on to nab the alleged fraudster," a police official said.
According to the woman's complaint, Munjal contacted her through a matrimonial website and later her family was approached by his elder brother Dr Saurabh Munjal and his sister-in-law Radhika Munjal for a possible alliance.
"None of the family members ever met us personally as they claimed to be out of the country. They shared fake identity proofs like photocopies of voter ID card and passport to gain our confidence. Munjal soon established contact as a prospective groom and became friends through mobile and social networking sites," the woman said in her complaint.
Munjal then asked her to deposit Rs 50,000 in a bank account of his family doctor named Gaurav Joshi, saying his relatives had met with an accident outside Delhi and he was unable to send money, she said.
She deposited Rs 20,000 cash in a bank in Noida Sector 62 on March 12, 2012. Once the woman showed reluctance on any further financial help, Munjal gradually disconnected his online and phone contact with her and created another fake profile on the same matrimonial site to attract more victims, the complainant said.
"After being cheated by him, I investigated and found that he has changed his name from Dr Rohit Munjal to Dr Rohan/Ronit Munjal on the website. I also discovered that he gave wrong information about his profession that he works with Virgin Atlantic Airlines and his brother, with Lufthansa Airlines," the woman said.
