Four men have been given the death sentence for the fatal gang-rape of a young medical student on a moving Delhi bus, an attack that shocked India and ignited weeks of protests demanding better safety for women and swift justice for the 23-year-old who was killed.
"The crime depicts hair-raising, beastly and unparalleled behaviour," the judge said in his 27-page order.
One of the men, Vinay Sharma, broke down in tears as the sentence was announced. Along with Akshay Thakur, Pawan Gupta and Mukesh Singh, he was sentenced to death by hanging at a fast-track court in Delhi today. (
)
Judge Yogesh Khanna said the student was subjected to "inhuman torture till the very end" and that the case fell into the "rarest of rare category", which justified capital punishment. The men had demonstrated "exceptional depravity and extreme brutality", he noted.
"In these times when crimes against women are on the rise, court cannot turn a blind eye to this gruesome act," he said.
"We are happy.  Justice has been delivered," said the student's father with his wife and two sons by his side. "I can finally breathe, I am relieved and we are finally at peace. They have got the punishment they truly deserve," added the girl's mother. 
Defence lawyer AP Singh dramatically wiped tears away as he told reporters that the verdict has been influenced by public and political pressure.
Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde rejected that allegation and said justice has been served to the student and her family.
The woman, a trainee physiotherapist, and a male friend were lured onto a bus by five men and a teenager. The woman was then repeatedly raped and tortured with a metal bar. The judge in his verdict has said that the convicts pulled out her internal organs "by hand." She died two weeks later.
One of the five men arrested in connection with the attack committed suicide in prison in March, while the teen was sentenced by a juveniles court to three years in a reform centre. 
Enraged by the attack, thousands of demonstrators had marched in different cities, forcing the government to introduce tougher laws to punish sexual offences; special courts to try rape cases quickly were also sanctioned.
