Indo-Canadian porn star Sunny became one of the most searched names on the Internet in India when she arrived in 2011 to appear in a reality TV series. Since then, she's starred in erotic thriller  'Jism 2' and features in a raunchy item number called 'Laila' in soon-to-release gangster movie 'Shootout At Wadala'.
As India casts around for reasons to explain a series of horrifying sex crimes, the latest being the kidnap and brutal rape of a five-year-old girl, pornography is under scrutiny and has led some to call for 31-year-old Leone to be jailed.
Recent events have galvanised anti-porn campaigners after it was revealed that the suspects in the rape of the five-year-old had watched explicit material before the crime.
The pornography claims coincide with a separate legal effort in the Supreme Court to introduce an outright ban on such material in India.
"Our children are accessing more and more graphic and brutal videos and they are imitating them and we are suffering," Kamlesh Vaswani, a commercial lawyer who has petitioned the Supreme Court to demand a ban, told AFP. The next hearing in the case is set for April 29.
Two Indian laws already outlaw the distribution or creation of obscene material, with the Information Technology Act (2000) prescribing up to five years in jail for anyone caught publishing "lascivious" material.
But as most of the pornography accessed in India is on sites outside the jurisdiction of prosecutors and viewed in the privacy of homes or on mobile phones, convictions are rare and the restrictions are largely meaningless.
Appearing in a debate on Monday night on a news channel, Leone defended her dual career as porn star and actress and dismissed fears that adult material was linked to sex crime.
"Pornography is not for people who think it's for real. It's fantasy and it's entertainment," she said.
"It's complete nonsense to blame rape on adult material out there. Education starts at home. It's mums and dads sitting with their children and teaching them what is right and wrong."
Fellow star John Abraham also defended her, saying those seeking to blame pornography for rapes were missing the root cause of the problem in India - social attitudes to women and a lack of education.
"By banning something you're not going to solve the problem. The world over, people have access to porn. Are there rape cases like this (of the five-year-old) that exist the world over? No.
"Did rape cases exist before porn came into being? Yes," he said.
The debate about links between pornography and sex crime mirrors other largely unresolved controversies globally about whether violent video games cause gun crime or if gangster rap encourages anti-social behaviour.
Some experts deny any link, pointing to stable or declining incidences of rape in some countries where pornography has gone from scarcity to ubiquity in the last 15 years thanks to its availability on the Internet.
Others say the Internet provides a forum for criminally-minded perverts to meet and vocalise their darkest desires. It also creates an industry that produces ever more depraved and damaging material.
"In terms of the larger debate, whether porn leads to violence, I don't think anyone should have a knee-jerk reaction and say it does," junior IT minister Milind Deora said Tuesday. 
"We are a liberal society and we don't want to get into the space of censoring content."
