Delhi Police have put in place a comprehensive security cover for the India-Africa summit and will go for aerial survey and roof-top marking -- till date reserved for occasions like Independence and Republic Day -- as part of the arrangements.
Stating that there will be multiple VVIP arrangements, police added it shall impact traffic and congestion is expected in and around ITO, Vikas Marg, the Ring Road stretch near Delhi Secretariat, etc. during the meet.
Almost one-fourth of the force has been deployed to secure the four-day summit that kicks off Monday and is to be attended by the heads of 54 African states. Prime Minister Narendra Modi will be inaugurating the meet.
More than 300 CCTV cameras have been installed at ITO, Delhi Secratariat, Raj Ghat and all areas in the vicinity of Indira Gandhi Stadium, the main venue for the summit, said a senior official.
"Aerial survey, roof-top marking, positioning of snipers in high-rises, setting up of multiple pickets on certain stretches and sanitising the potential VVIP routes shall form part of the security arrangement," the official said.
This Independence Day, Delhi Police for the first time added rooftop marking in its security arrangements. These are codes -- usually in alpha-numeric form -- painted over selected rooftops or roofs of emergency public vehicles to enable unmanned aerial vehicles, choppers and CCTV cameras installed up high locate crucial spots.
Traffic police yesterday used helicopters for the first time to monitor arrangements for Durga idol immersion. For occasions like Republic and Independence Day, aerial survey was done using helicams, said the official.
Apart from more than half the police forces of Central and New Delhi districts, sleuths from the Crime Branch and Special Cells have also been roped in to bolster the arrangements, said the official, adding that three DCP rank officials of Crime Branch are themselves supervising the separate units.
Apart from them, the whole team of Police Control Room is coordinating the arrangements, as are the personnel from the battalions reserved for specific purposes.
Meanwhile, Delhi Traffic Police is awaiting final inputs about the programme schedules and are yet to draft a detailed advisory.
However, a senior official said that there will be multiple VVIP arrangements, which shall affect traffic, and congestion is expected in and around ITO, Vikas Marg, the Ring Road stretch near Delhi Secretariat, the Mathura Road stretch near Pragati Maidan, India Gate and adjoining areas.                
