A man has been awarded ten years in jail for raping a woman on false promise of marriage by a Delhi court, which refused to take a lenient view saying the crime committed by him was very serious as he has ruined the victim "physically, psychologically and financially."
"Here was an innocent lady who handed over her body as well as her money to the convict on the belief that he will be her life partner but was totally unaware of the evil intentions of the convict, who was all out to gain only bodily pleasure from her by deceit.
"The convict's family background, as canvassed by his counsel before me, does not persuade me to take a lenient view in his favour. The crime committed by the convict is very serious and he does not deserve any leniency at all. He has ruined the prosecutrix physically, psychologically and also financially," Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhatt said.
The court also imposed a fine of Rs 1.5 lakh on the convict, Rohit Tiwari, directing that the amount realised shall be paid to the victim.
The court, while convicting Tiwari, had observed that he had been deceitfully exploiting the woman sexually as well as financially and deliberately concealed his marriage from her.
"He knew that the woman may be averse to sexual relations with a married man and hence told her that he was un-married. The prosecutrix believed the words of convict to such an extent that she not only consented to physical relations with him but also had been extending financial help to him regularly," it said.
The court held that the convict had dishonest intentions since the beginning, while noting that the woman had paid Rs three lakh to him on two occasions to help him come out of financial constraints but he fled with the money.
According to the prosecution, a complaint was lodged in December 2013 by the woman, who had a love affair with the convict, alleging that he established physical relations with her on false promise of marriage and disappeared after taking money from her.
The court said that the woman, a Delhi resident, who was also married at that time, had clearly revealed her marital status to convict, adding that under the belief that he would marry her, she persuaded her estranged husband for divorce.
It also rejected the contention of the convict's counsel that the complainant being a married lady, could not have been misled by any promise of marriage, saying a married lady, living separately from her husband for 17 years, is as susceptible as an unmarried lady.
"Such a lady is always in need of true love and in search of a dependable partner with whom she may start her life afresh after desertion by her husband," the court said.
The complaint had said that the woman, who was residing separately from her husband, initiated divorce proceedings, but the man, who befriended her, vanished and when she visited his native place in UP, she found out that he was married and had kids.
During the trial he pleaded not guilty and claimed he was falsely implicated by the complainant.
Seeking leniency from the court, the convict had said he was the sole bread earner in his family and had clean antecedents.                
