An elderly woman was brutally murdered this morning in West Delhi's Punjabi Bagh area as unidentified assailants stabbed her around 30 times after barging into her home when she was there with her five-year-old grandson.
Keeping in mind the gruesomeness of the killing as she was attacked with a meat cleaver multiple times, police said that prima facie it appears to be a case of murder to settle personal enmity but investigators are also not ruling out a robbery angle as the house was ransacked and some valuables were found missing.
The incident took place between 11 to 11:30 am when the victim, identified as Sulochna Bansal (62) and her five-year-old grandson were at home while her husband, who is a businessman dealing in mobil oil was out for work.
The victim's daughter-in-law was not at home too.
"When Sulochna Bansal's daughter-in-law returned home, she found the front door of the house bolted from inside. When nobody opened it after repeated attempts, she called a neighbour and reached the rear end of the house only to find the back door open where the victim was found lying in a pool of blood. There were around 27 stab wounds on her body," said a senior police official.
The five-year-old grandson was found locked in a first floor room while the house was found ransacked. A PCR call was made and Bansal was rushed to a hospital where doctors declared her brought dead.
In a bid to hide their identities, the assailant also cut the wires of the CCTV cameras installed in the house and also took away the hard disk in which the video might have been recorded. Though they have been caught on the CCTV of a neighbour's house, the footage is not clear.
Besides Sulochana, her husband, daughter in law, and two grand children lived in the house.
Police suspect the involvement of a former domestic help behind the incident. However, they have also not ruled out other angles in the case. A case of murder and other relevant sections has been registered and further investigations are on, police said. 
