A Delhi court today decided to pronounce on October 10 its verdict in the sensational abduction and gangrape case of a 30-year-old BPO executive from northeast, after the prosecution rebutted the claim of one of the five accused that police had fudged the evidence.
    
The court had posted the matter for today as one of the accused on the scheduled day of the verdict on September 22 had alleged discrepancies in the investigation.
    
Additional Sessions Judge Virender Bhatt reserved the verdict after police denied the alleged discrepancies pointed out by the counsel for accused Usman on September 22, minutes before the court was scheduled to pronounce the judgement.
    
Responding to Usman's plea which claimed that blood sample collected from the victim was planted on his pants to ensure matching of DNA samples, public prosecutor Satvinder Kaur said the exhibits were sent for forensic test on November 26, 2010, much before the accused was arrested on December 2, 2010.
    
Kaur reiterated the argument that there was no tampering with the evidence.
    
Usman had claimed that the medical report and statement of the alleged victim had suggested that no external injuries were caused to her.
    
His counsel had also questioned the discrepancies in the statements of investigating officer (IO) and forensic expert over number of exhibits sent during the probe, received by the lab, and packed in different envelopes.
    
Observing that manipulation of blood samples looks highly improbable, the court on September 22 had directed the police to respond to the allegations levelled by Usman.
    
Earlier on September 8, the court had reserved judgement after the final arguments were concluded in the case in which five persons were facing trial.
    
According to police, Shamshad alias Khutkan, Usman alias Kale, Shahid alias Chhota Billi, Iqbal alias Bada Billi and Kamruddin alias Mobile, had allegedly abducted the victim on November 24, 2010 while she was walking home with her friend after her shift had ended.
    
The accused then took the victim to Mongolpuri, allegedly gangraped her, and left her on an isolated road. 
