Two persons have been arrested for allegedly cheating people by demanding money for offering jobs in a reputed company, police said today.
The accused have been identified as 24-year-old Kanak Kumar Gupta, a native of Banda district of Uttar Pradesh and Atul Kumar (27) from Kanpur's Gwaltoli locality in the state.
Cyber cell of Economic Offences Wing (EOW) had received a complaint about some unknown persons allegedly using the name and trademark of the TATA Group companies to cheat people by offering jobs online.
"Fraudulent emails using the name and logo of TATA were being circulated with promised jobs in TATA Group of companies. These emails were sent to entice people to make payments to get the job which of course they never got."
"The two accused who stayed together in Noida used to target unemployed youth who would register themselves on the online recruitment site 'Click Your Jobs India Pvt Ltd' created by them."
"The accused in turn send emails to them for jobs on behalf TATA Group of companies and ask them to deposit money as refundable deposit in bank accounts," said a police official.
During investigation, it was revealed that several people had deposited money in the bank account floated by the accused persons and duped by them.
Some of the victims were identified based on emails received by them as the IP log user data was compiled.
"The accused had been changing their addresses and mobile numbers quite frequently to avoid detection," police said.
 
During the interrogation, Gupta said that he is a graduate in computer applications from Chitrakoot.
He had come to Noida in search of job and had started working in an online job portal company namely Timesjobs.com where he learned the tricks of the trade and went on to cheat people.
Kumar, also a graduate had Noida in lookout for a job and come in touch with Gupta some time back. The company Click Your Jobs India Pvt Ltd was registered at his Kanpur address and he is one of the directors of the company.
Further investigation of the case is in progress, the official added. 
