Rahul Gandhi did it yesterday. Today, Delhi chief minister 
will join students from the North-East in a 'dharna' to protest against the death of  
, a 20-year-old from Arunachal Pradesh, who died after he was beaten up by a group of men last week in a market.
The students are on an indefinite protest to demand a fast-track investigation into Nido's death and action against the police for not doing enough to help him. They said Mr Kejriwal has promised to meet Delhi's Lieutenant Governor and press for immediate police action. Delhi's police reports to the L-G who is the Centre's representative in the capital.  
On Monday evening, Congress vice-president Rahul Gandhi met the student protesters and promised that justice will be delivered for Nido.  Around him placards read, "We are not outsiders."
 
"What happened to Nido is totally unacceptable," said Mr Gandhi. "There is only one India. And that India belongs to all of us.  We are going to ensure you get respect in this country. Full stop." 
He has reportedly asked Home Minister Sushil Kumar Shinde to order an investigation. "Rahulji has called up Shindeji in front of us and requested for the probe," PTI quoted a student as saying. Student union representatives met Mr Shinde this morning. 
 
Mr Gandhi, who is leading the Congress party's campaign for the national election, spent nearly 30 minutes with the protesters. They said they expect Arvind Kejriwal, Delhi's new "activist" chief minister, to do more and actually sit on protest with them today. "If he can sit for a dharna for his Law Minister, then I think he should also sit for we Indians, why only for his Law Minister?" a student said. 
 
Nido was studying in Jalandhar and was vacationing in Delhi when he was beaten up with rods and sticks, allegedly by a group of shopkeepers who ridiculed his appearance and his dyed hair. The police say it negotiated a settlement and that Nido then went to his sister's home where he was found dead in his bed the next day.
 
According to the Delhi Police, six people have been booked for assaulting Nido. Three of them have been arrested and two of the other three are juveniles.
